so so this is very exciting for us
because uh I think both foreign myself
Define ourselves as SAS Geeks
and when we start our journey uh back in
faster was one of the only resources on
the web that we can learn what SAS
really is nobody knew what ARR was what
churn was net retention anything that
seems so common these days was not
obvious and we should give a lot of
credit to Jason here because you've done
so much for the SAS community
so much knowledge and expertise and I
remember wearing myself you know say oh
there's a new article on faster see what
Jason was wrote then Rudy Jason I want
to say thank you we've met before and I
said it before but really I want to use
this platform and say thank you not just
for us as Monday but for the all SAS
Community for your value that you
created for us great to hear thank you
yeah it's funny in some in some ways and
what talk about it today things are the
same as 2014 right
um but SAS is literally we should do the
math it's got to be 100 times bigger in
terms of spend right just think about
that's a decade of 20 to 30 annual
growth compounding it's just epic right
and so in some ways things are the same
but in some ways things are so much
bigger there's so much better
instrumented right we'll talk about we
actually know stuff now we had to guess
a little bit back then cohort analysis
and what higher nrr really means and
what CLTV means
um so it's just funny how things are
both radically different and the same
but yet the same in some ways that it's
the same sales and marketing motions
right it's the same analysis it's the
same trying to figure out how far a
dollar can take you so it's it is
interesting I wanted to ask you Jason
should small startups uh use CAC in a
different way
um than than scale-up companies how do
you see it as an investor I I think
these metrics that we've been talking
about for for over a decade CAC CLTV and
everything it's important to understand
two things one they're absolutely not
Gap metrics there is no legal definition
for these things including nor nrr right
and I don't know how money does it but
I'll tell you almost all public
companies that sell the smbs like
exclude their smallest customers from
nrr there's always an asterisk or a
dagger it says does not exclude one or
two seat deals does not exclude
customers that churn in the first 90
days that that's nrr that's bad enough
but the thing about CAC in CLTV is these
are sort of manufactured metrics in some
way some come from the b2c space where
Performance Marketing has to be really
really really good right but some come
from VCS who are trying to decide and
then Founders as we scaled how much
money should we burn right and so for a
VC with a large fund or Founders going
big right with a large War chest a
two-year payback a three-year payback
sometimes is fine right
um if you're serviced now and you sign
five-year contracts up front maybe
there's no problem with the three year
because all the deals are five years but
you can also have pretty good CAC and
long CLTV and go bankrupt
this is what I see with kids these days
and I put kids in quotes you could be 60
or or a 16 year old founder they they
tell look they tell me how great their
metrics are our cack is so low
especially with smbs our CLTV and nrr
are so high and uh oh and we're almost
out of money like these they can take it
these definitions and Miss can take you
down a rat hole and and so
um even CAC and I want to is one of the
most fundamental questions for marketing
spend is do you include the the free and
the additional ones or just the
Performance Marketing ones and most
marketers in SAS will never hit their
goals if you don't give them credit for
the free ones for word of mouth because
it's everything to marketing is
expensive right it soaks and adword is
so expensive even YouTube YouTube ads
aren't I mean Mondays run a few as I
understand it a few YouTube ads and an
individual ad is actually cheap but Mass
scale is expensive and so if you don't
give marketers if you don't let
marketers sort of get credit for
everything that closes versus their
spend they rarely can even afford to
spend anything so any I want that's why
these metrics you have you got to
measure them you have to have consistent
but then you have to have a brain and
measure them against your net burn right
or folks will on your team will go off
on crazy tangents they'll go off on
crazy tangents uh I have two comments on
that
um in terms of CAC I think you know what
Jason said kind of really resonates I
think um
there's a problem in in like there's a
problem with with CAC and LTV that it
doesn't measure cash flow
um you know sometimes you can spend a
lot of money on customers and you can
have a reasonable LTV but that doesn't
say how fast you actually get the cash
that you spend on marketing and the way
we've measured it as as a company since
day one we didn't care about the you
know like a gap uh return on on CAC we
cared about actual cash in the bank so
how much we spend when do we actually
spend the money and how fast we get it
from customers in terms of actual
collection into our bank and I think
that's what made us efficient over time
in terms of cash flow and I think
companies should focus more on adjusting
those metrics into actual cash so that's
common number one my second point is is
that I think the SAS Community is now
maturing and companies has become more
mature most of their SNM expense
is not spent on acquiring customers most
of what they spend on is retaining their
existing ARR so if you think about their
customer success customer support
account managers all that expense is to
retain customers while CAC only measures
how much it costs to buy a new customer
so I think that shares just a small
light into the actual expense that it
takes uh it costs the company to to buy
and retain a customer and I think we
need to mature into more advanced
metrics that actually measure not just
the acquiring the customer also how much
it costs to maintain a customer
yep one thing one one challenge today
with being over metriced in some ways is
what I see across so many SAS startups
that I work with and it's actually super
interesting for saster itself we have
about 200 sponsors so so I get to watch
what 200 CMOS and VP of field and demand
gen are thinking in their brain and
what's happened is as we've transitioned
from the exuberance of 2021 to 2023
marketers and SAS have become super
short-term focused super short-term
Focus now if you're Monday back in the
day doing all digital doing all YouTube
AdWords uh digital placements that's
fine you actually can measure something
in the funnel and what Monday probably
converts from free to paid in 60 days or
less or I'm making up that actually
strategy works fine for for a hyper SMB
model but it actually can be destructive
in mid market and Enterprise I mean
Monday's doing bigger deals today and I
bet some of those deals take a year to
close right from initial contact to
close and so what's happened is
marketers are now being judged on
results this month rather than this year
and it is leading to Super myopic
marketing right only stuff that gets me
leads and even close Revenue this month
and it what it's leading to and Founders
should think about this I've already
seen it happen is pipeline is drying up
pipeline is drying up for sales teams
going hooray you you cut your marketing
spend in half and you only allowed
instant Roi but if the sales team has no
pipe going into the second half of the
year you're not going to hit your plan
right so here's where metrics can also
take you down the wrong hole
um and we've got to find a way in the in
the Middle where marketers have some
leeway to spend a budget as best they
can right that's the tension with
metrics you have to measure it but you
also have to trust your team to say hey
your marketing budget this year is one
million five million 15 million 20
million and it's stressful but you have
to trust your marketing leadership to do
the best job they can with the budget
they have
how can you how can you reflect efforts
you're doing on expanding your current
user base like expanding the number of
seats of each customer
like is it is Cash serving these efforts
or should you use different ones
hmm exactly you know I'm actually
curious if Monday as a case study if it
has a distinct customer marketing budget
this is something I talk about with
every marketer I was talking with a
great SMB CMO yesterday joining a 50
million AR startup later State startup
and all and his number one question to
me was does this startup have a customer
marketing function right
um and it actually doesn't at 50 million
AR it only has marketing direct
marketing for new business right and if
you don't do customer marketing uh
you're you're you know you're you're
you're you're you're losing out on a
huge amount but it's a complicated topic
how much money how much budget how much
people to allocate to customer marketing
yeah I'll surprise you uh Jason surprise
me
we're not doing it almost you know right
now it's like a huge place for us to
grow into but I'll tell you what we do
it's a good answer I mean yeah no it's
an honest one and then what we are doing
um
in regard to short-term long term what
you're talking about yeah so we we were
always like a product-led Growth Company
obviously in the beginning we didn't
have sales and I think it made sense to
be like
we had to know what each dollar is
buying we gave it like a broad
attribution but like we knew like day
later what it's going to bring okay like
and I'm not talking a month like today
one day we gave it and did machine
learning to know why because you want to
optimize the companion
like optimizing the campaign a week
later is like means you lost like seven
X the money rather than a day later yes
and and so that was the beginning uh but
afterwards we added the sales and things
have changed dramatically obviously like
uh people uh and it was mostly
Consulting style but they have like a
quota okay so we can call themselves but
like the approach was like you already
bought the leads were paying customers
and then the sales went in an up motion
and kind of helped customers they just
like called them up help them and then
they scaled within the organization so
what we saw and I think in this model
which is like the majority of how we do
it today it's like bottom-up approach
you get to have both in many ways you
get to have like measurable short-term
return or like results with the
marketing effort you make yeah but then
yeah you you you also will think long
term with the customer and help them a
lot over time and so you see those
returns and what we we saw and and how
we do brand marketing which we do a lot
which is Billboards we even did one
Super Bowl uh thing which you can't uh
say it's like short term widely
generation tool okay
um not sure if we ever gonna see that RI
uh coming back measurable like we kind
of measured I think like 25 out of that
spent like uh because we track
and what we did was we track people
mentioning it on calls and there's
anything uh leads being closed and Deals
being closed and kind of attributed that
way but the point is is that we we kind
of allocate
uh more or less around like 10 15 of our
budget to doing other stuff because we
understand it's important like not your
term and and those kind of thing and
even within the Performance Marketing we
have a test budget and we have the team
running on various stuff because we want
them to be creative we want them to do
other things and and sometimes figure
exactly how to measure them after we do
some some things
yeah the cut if nothing else I think for
Founders
um if nothing else reflect on this
customer marketing it's so interesting
that Monday with its incredible Success
is Not does not have a customer
marketing function
um but again I was just talking
yesterday with you spending a lot of
money on it yeah but but here's an
interesting met I tracked this with SAS
companies and it's a niche metric but
it's super interesting in terms of
long-term Health which is the ratio of
Revenue growth to new customer growth on
a percentage basis so so I like to see
at least uh sort of a two to one ratio
like if you're growing 50 I like to see
you adding at least 25 new customers if
you're growing 50 you're adding 10 new
customer you're fatiguing your base
aren't you
um and when things are stressful like
they've been the last 12 months you've
seen these ratios get inverted even in
public companies where the new logos
aren't there and you see much more than
uh you know a two to one ratio for
Revenue
um and new logo and you're sort of two
parts of that one if if you do see that
you're you're you're you're over
stressed in your base two if you think
about it existentially your marketing
budget should be roughly related to that
how much of my Revenue am I getting from
growth in my base how much am I getting
from new customers but no one gets it
right no one gets it right in sales and
no one gets it right in marketing and um
but if you could if you can just put a
little more of that budget into growth
right versus new acquisition magic can
happen right just a little bit you want
and you at least want to make sure
you're not stressing your base too much
of that has happened the last year yeah
I totally agree and and I think that um
you know companies that have both
Enterprise and able to acquire new smbs
that's um the Holy Grail you know those
smbs will become the Enterprises of the
future uh at some point
um and and something that was surprising
I would say in the last uh you know 12
months since uh the economy change is
that we actually found that our SMB
budget was more stable than our
Enterprise uh segment so the smbs that's
interesting nrr yeah was actually more
stable I think a lot of Enterprise
companies have uh reduced uh you know
stopped hiring or reduced budget well
you know SMB is continuing to kind of be
very stable so I think that having both
really contributes to the just reducing
the velocity volatility of the the
business yeah just to like emphasize
what you said like the Enterprise growth
is still much higher it's just more
stable the smbs yeah it is interesting
trying to figure out what's going on
with the global economy is confusing and
that SMB it's certainly because if you
look at you know the US in particular
we've we've got three percent
unemployment right and still a pretty
profoundly strongly growing economy yet
massive stress at the CIO level and in
the Enterprise right
um and restaurants and small businesses
you know and many of them auto repair
shops they're they're at maximum
capacity they should be buying more
software than ever right
um and yet Enterprises are all cutting
the number of vendors uh trying to hold
the line on budget it's it's a it's a
it's a it's a strange world it is
interesting that you see that stability
for smes I think we should be seeing it
but we're not seeing it across all
companies right we're not sitting across
all companies okay I want to move on to
the next metric because we do have a lot
to cover and and I want to talk about uh
ARR which which kind of started out as a
as a well-defined metric you know and
and then it became something pretty
fluid between companies so I wanted to
hear Jason your perspective on you know
should all companies should all SAS
companies measure ARR what changed uh
since we started using it
well look I think the most I think I
think we could probably all agree that
and this happens this has happened even
with terms like cloud or SAS it's gotten
corrupted over the years right and so
ARR used to stand for annualized
recurring Revenue
um and then fintech exploded and uh and
and so they all wanted to claim they had
ARR even if a lot of fintech Revenue is
not recurring right not all stripe
payments are recurring
um Bank banking as a service is not
recurring but they still all claim they
had ARR right so we had that issue and
then it it wasn't it nowhere in that ARR
was the word SAS or software but it
should have been because the other thing
that happened is Hybrid models models
that are services and software models
that are hardware and software all
started to claim it was RR right and um
I wrote up today on the saster blog if
folks want to look matterport I don't
know if you ever use matterport it's
like that cool 3D software where you can
walk through houses and buildings it's
like super cool but half their revenue
is from services and cameras so their
gross margins are in the 40s right I
think Monday approaches 80 right or you
know this there's some
loose definitions a gross margin but
that's dramatically different margins
than Monday which is a software company
an 80 matterport which is super cool
right I mean that's software is hard
enough to build imagine adding cameras
and 3D that's harder than software but
as as a the the margins are in the 40s
and for a while it didn't seem to matter
twilio was valued the same multiple as a
pure play software company even with
lower multiples others were
um and and now we're in this world where
in this new world today there is a large
discount if your gross margins are lower
right and VCS got drunk and VC's funded
all revenue the same right and there's
many there's many I would I'm I'm gonna
guess that the most unicorns that go
bankrupt in in SAS are folks that are
Hybrid models that are services that are
other things or that are non-recurring
Revenue right if you're better.com and
you sold mortgages at the peak and now
there's no mortgages because in the US
it's seven percent that was never SAS
right it was never air so my rambly
point is now you've just you are who you
are matterport isn't going to stop doing
3D tours or stop having cameras but you
have to and they're very honest about it
in their Public Finance you have to be
religious as a Founder segment your
business this is software this is
services this is payments right
especially payments and be honest about
the margins because just like CAC and
CLTV can kill you low margins can kill
you like there's so many SAS pseudo SAS
companies that have much lower margins
than 70 percent and as as religious as
Monday was in the early days right with
it you have to be even more instrumented
and careful as you're when you have real
costs right when your gross margins are
below 60
um you have to be super careful and
people got sloppy they got sloppy
yeah I think this is a great point I
think my analysis of what happened was
that um you know people Founders have
noticed that you get the great multiple
for ARR as a SAS company because it
comes with all the benefits stability uh
Revenue growth uh and so on so
everything was marketed and packaged as
they are consumption and usage but
there's a huge difference because
consumption changes you know Suddenly
It's it's the holidays and you get more
server loads suddenly
um you get less Billings and and the
point about ARR should be stable uh it
shouldn't be based on any time of the
year it shouldn't based on usage and I
think that was unfortunate and I think
even for SAS companies there's so much
Nuance do you include discounts or don't
uh if you have uh upgrade in a renewal
is it ARR or do you not include it
there's so much nuance and maybe going
forward does the industry matures it
might be like Gap rules for uh what is
actually ARR
yeah at least realize that if you're not
pure software you're playing by a
tougher set of rules nowadays right and
as Iran said it got massed in the boom
everything got a call to error and no
one looked under the hood no one cared
if the Top Line growth was there no one
cared and the funny thing is once you
have AR you also have ndr so if it's AR
Basin consumption suddenly you have ndr
180 200 percent and it just doesn't make
sense
yeah my rule is if you're if your error
ever goes down it's not error
AR May grow you make it may grow slowly
or more or more quickly but when you see
a startup where the error has gone up
and down I'm like okay I gotta dig in
here because whatever it is it ain't an
AAR right it just does it it just
doesn't happen that way yeah it should
be taken that's the point but but it is
interesting in the world today and
actually I should know I don't know does
Monday do payments at all is it added
payments to the platform yet
I mean everyone Under the Sun pretty
much has haven't they uh they've added
payments in some fashion right uh but
we're all we all we are the models are
revolving right and for example you know
bill.com is an SMB hero was a pretty
good company before it had payments when
it ipo'd now it's an epic company at 15
billion but the majority of its revenue
is actually from high margin payments
not low margin right it was a billion
dollar company to 15 by adding payments
Shopify margins aren't perfect but the
majority of shopify's revenues are
payments right if Shopify was just a SAS
company it would be a fraction of the
Shopify we know so there's all these
Hybrid models that are going to happen
um it's just we've got to be more honest
as Founders about what is AR and
segmented and I'll be direct
um that I would say that the two worst
Investments I've made I haven't made
very many bad Investments But as time
went on I made more bad Investments not
less because we kind of let let the bar
expand in the Box those were folks that
claim stuff was AR that wasn't
they saw either massive churn or issues
with their burn rate or other things and
all and I call it pseudo ARR right all
this the these problems are coming home
to roost so if it's you just be hyper
aware and honest and transparent about
what your sources and quality of Revenue
are because you may fool a few people in
the early days right but it will bite
you later you can't hide from low gross
margins you can't hide from these issues
so too much too many games there's
there's every VC has a theranos or two
in their portfolio or an FTX it's not
just FTX they're all over the place and
one of the great frauds was manipulating
error in 2021. startups that lied about
their error I got to follow up on this
Jason uh what about the second the other
side of the spectrum what about
companies that might sign a contract for
four or five years when does AR become
professional license uh
um well in in what what what's the
question behind the question everyone
would love in an idea world if Monday
could close a customer in 24 hours it
would do a five-year contract you'd
probably take it right there's obviously
a trade-off between time and long
contracts I'm not sure because I'll tell
you what you become blind to what the
customer wants well you do it has a
downside right you become less
customer-centric when you can phone it
in right yeah I think one thing that um
the SAS industry has created is
alignment between the customer and and
the software company so the customer can
always kind of make a decision to leave
the platform and you keep improving it
as you want to retain the customers and
let's say you in hyper growth and sign
up a lot of Revenue into two or three
year contract you know you might find
out in three years that you have a
U-turn wave coming up that you didn't
predict
well two thoughts on that first of all
years ago in the earlier days disaster
we did an event at Cornerstone on
demands uh headquarters uh in Santa
Monica and the CEO was there at the time
and he said something at the time I
thought was crazy but I know you guys
will actually agree with this which is I
forced my team to only do one-year deals
and Cornerstone was more Enterprise it's
Enterprise learning management system
and you could easily work your way to a
three-year deal for an Enterprise
purchase like Cornerstone on demand he's
like no it kept us honest it made sure
we didn't do terrible deals junk deals
we were honest I did not want even
two-year deals and that and I I was much
closer to being a SAS founder than I am
today I thought hey that's that's almost
dumb I didn't say it that way I said
that's great but he's right right he's
right and the other thing I'll say
around I'm going to challenge you I
think that in a good way I think
companies like Monday and Shopify and
folks like that are constantly
challenged right because you can leave
any time right
um but I will say across the spectrum of
SAS companies I see the opposite I see
much worse Behavior the last year and a
half I see see threats constantly from
customer success teams threatening folks
to leave I wrote this up I will not name
I never name names but a leading SAS
company that is SMB sent us a bill where
they quintupled our annual Bill and told
us we had to pay for four years up front
so four times five is twenty they sent
us a 20x bill
um and this is a leading public company
where growth but growth has slowed a lot
right Monday's growth is I mean maybe
it's slowed a little bit it's pretty
good okay but uh folks have been under a
lot of pressure a lot of pressure and I
there's a lot of shenanigans a lot of
um a lot of borderline unethical ways
price increases have been done because
look you got to be not being
non-transparent hiding things because if
you own the customer's structured data
it's hard to leave it's hard Monday is a
CRM and many other tools sure you can
leave there's a million other tools but
how do can I really export all of my
data and immediately get it fully
structured in a competitor I'm not so
sure right maybe you can tell me right
so there's always some data lock right
and I've actually seen worse behave
Behavior I've never seen the last year
as growth has slowed just pressure on
the like we talked about too much
pressure on the base when the top when
the new the new logos aren't growing and
it's a good point on retention or
stickiness Yeah we actually since day
one aimed that Monday will be at the
core of operation of every team yeah
like we didn't want to be the ones who
get chucked out you know that's why you
see the stability now with smbs yeah you
know because they rely on us more they
can solid on us because they run their
operations so I think we're super sticky
in some areas but regardless of that
when the economic crisis happened like
we we kind of took the opposite approach
we said we want to be a great partner
for our customers we kind of like took
the approach of like extending their
ability to pay and a lot of other things
towards customers rather than doing the
reverse yeah um in in many ways and so
like I think that's like a more of a
long-term decision and I think it pays
off once you think Perpetual you think
uh recurring you know and you don't
think short-term because like you know
every quarter is going to end like two
years ahead it's going to reach us yes
so we we need to think like
strategically with every customer
yeah we need a metric in 2023 that we're
talking about metrics we need a metric
that only Founders can own
and um it's customer centricity
we need to know how customer-centric the
company is because you can Brute Force
you can Brute Force high nrr with longer
term deals you can Brute Force nrr if
you threaten customers when they leave
with an inability to get their data you
can you can Brute Force nrr by having
out-of-bound price increases 30 or 40 a
year one or one vendor we have or their
largest customer they raise prices on us
40 a year and didn't add a feature last
year I asked them why they did it
um and they said because we can we need
to we need the revenue I'm like that's
not my problem like I'm trying to learn
I'm faster I'm like that's a very honest
answer and I do appreciate it but you
haven't earned that business what you
didn't ship a single feature that I've
used in the last year we've asked for
like a hundred we're your singular
discussion we've gotten none and you
raised my prices 40 percent
um and so there's so much pressure to do
these things and and if the CEOs don't
monitor make sure that your customer
centricity isn't staying High bad
behavior can slip in when there's growth
pressure right when when there's growth
pressure
um I can share our metric like our Top
Line metric and the one we kind of like
I think after like a few years uh we we
kind of went to that from new paying
customers to a web weekly active paying
people
yeah and um so we cared like we said we
don't want to learn about a customer
problem when they turn or not like we
don't want to see the revenue because
that's too late we want to see them
churn when the user slips we want them
to move us more and more and we actually
and measure that but it's a Top Line
metric it's really hard to move on a
Navy test so like we had to find proxies
and a lot of other metrics to kind of
help improve that and it's it's still
like that today like we we measure
activity maybe one last question before
we move into to to the next metric
Jason you said you talked about customer
centricity and you know using other
metrics to support
um ARR do you think it should become a
standard for public companies you know
to to put it in their F1 to like what
should they do to reflect this customer
centricity to to
I don't know you know you know for years
people have been saying the problem with
going public is it forces you to be too
short-term right and the reality is
there's truth to that right the reality
is yeah Jeff Bezos convinced the world
you can go long on investing right on
the top line but even there you still
have met he still had to hit he still
had to hit the metrics right and so this
is the existential challenge for
Founders and I think it gets harder as
you approach and then become public is
staying super customer-centric because
you know that you'll get whether you're
bootstrap venture-backed or public the
later stage you get the more pressure
you're going to get to hit every quarter
and every month and with startups for
example if you're venture-backed let's
say you just raised around you've got
five years of Revenue you have a soft
quarter the VCS are going to be like
okay buck up rolling around like
things are pretty good you know everyone
has a rough quarter uh you know it
happens as a public company it's a it's
a it's a sucker punch even though you
tell the team to be calm it's just a
quarter it everyone feels it so the this
is the I think I think this is what
we've learned the last year and a half
in SAS when we went into a tougher I'm
not going to call it a downturn because
buying's up bind is not down bind is up
but as it's tougher is Founders just
have to own this and I don't know that
it's a public company metric but it's
the secret founder metric whether it's
WAP or wad or whatever you use but it's
too easy to let customer happiness just
drop it's too it's too easy it just
because it takes some stress out of the
system in the short term right
um the classic one from is always when
for example uh someone is in on the
revenue side wants to shorten the free
trial this is the classic one from from
the beginning of the internet right
someone comes in and they're like oh we
have a 30-day free trial like I'm gonna
switch this to 14 because you know we
have too many free writers and we'll
convert quickly and there's always
either some data or a spreadsheet that
says that's a good idea and sometimes it
starts you have to say pause maybe we
need a 60-day free trial maybe I mean I
don't know what Monday is or all of it
we've done the same thing uh from 30 to
14 yeah okay you did the classic 30-14
yeah and I'll tell you why yeah why so
we'll have a shorter uh input cycle
towards uh media buying like you know we
were really religious right but is are
you sure it's better for the customers
it didn't change the metrics like really
didn't change the metrics but are you
sure look Monday is it's hard to argue
with money because it's so successful
but are you sure it's better right
because this is where the metrics can
confuse you talking about metrics right
back in the day you know we're not
testing it every day but like back then
we did a very long uh term maybe test
and started didn't really move the
metrics towards paying customers
and I think it depends on the product if
it requires longer implementation or
like a professional to help you on board
then maybe it makes sense to do like a
long trial but for us it was very easy
to get set up and get value from the
beginning no for sure it's just
something Founders need I'll give you a
different I'll give you a diff a couple
personal examples back in the day in the
early days of adobe sign Echo sign where
we had a truly viral product DocuSign
Adobe sign these are very viral products
I measured in the early days how long it
would take someone that first got a
contract to sign to convert to paid okay
first they'd have to decide to sign up
themselves and they'd have to try it
then they'd have to do it then they
might need to get three or four
exposures in the wild like marketing
right it was eight months
it was eight months okay not eight
months from someone doing a search for
e-signature or something and finding you
and buying that was 14 days but the true
viral conversion coefficient was real it
was profound and it was slow and
um no one but no one cared except me
right eight months is too long no one
cared and when almost a week after I
left after acquisition that got ripped
out of the product the whole free thing
the whole free conversion and it because
it didn't help anyone there but then
over the next three years there may be
writers market share fell by 50 percent
yeah yeah and I there was no one left at
me even though the business doing what
250 million say there's no one there
left to be the champion of the free the
champion of the long cycle the champion
of the metametric the champion of the
founder metrics because it always it
said to one of the most successful
companies on planet Earth and software
hey get rid of this like it's there's no
data it's eight months it's not gonna
We're not gonna make the quarter right
and um and uh but it was wrong from the
generational perspective right we lost
half the market share I'll tell you like
our approach growing up as a company was
that we want like I always believe there
is like a lot of ways to do things yeah
and like why not pick the one that we
have data or quick data on the path you
know that's what we aim for all the time
yeah and so like arguably there are like
100 better ways to do it but we just
don't know and we probably would have
known like it happened to you that if
you don't handle that if it takes you
like eight months to get data and
maturity of it like maybe like I don't
know 10 months okay yes when it's very
slow to make decisions and if you have
to iterate on that all the time and so
like we kind of opted for the you know
shorter term like uh and I I don't know
how to how to do things on such a long
term you know it's very hard I can't I
mean Monday is wildly successful so I
can't be critical but it's just
interesting to think you could always be
more successful Monday could there's no
question even any company could be five
to ten more success more successful and
over a decade that compounds to an
awesome rate right that that incremental
piece that's almost the existence it's
almost fun in a way it's what sasser's
about is how could you be five to ten
percent better at everything do ten of
those and uh you know you change the
course of a trajectory of a company
right I agree yeah yeah the related one
just um Daria maybe I think is super
interesting on these metrics
that has changed the last two years
going to this point of what do founders
need to own is nrr versus csat or nrr
versus NPS and you know when we started
with saster I was kind of anti-mps
because it seemed like a big company
metric but then we learned it kind of
works like as a consistent way to
measure things you can use csat you can
use MPS they're not the same but you
could and you can game them and you can
game the question you ask and you can
pay bribe people but if you do it the
same way every month and every quarter
and you track it over time you can see
Trends if it's better it's good and if
it's worse it's bad what has happened in
the last year and a half is it has been
abandoned by by most startups in favor
of maximizing nrr right and as a CEO you
have to know you have to be the boss as
founders of this trade-off of again nrr
versus csat you have to get the data and
if you're csat or or MPS is declining
and your nrr is growing you've got to
jump in because no one in your team is
going to jump in this is something I
hadn't seen ever in my history of SAS
but I see it all over the place now is
csat NPS down but nrr up this is a
reaction to stress
yeah just like why why do you think is
the reason because uh it's they don't
necessarily have to you know they can go
together yes well let's let's give an
extreme example let's say I'm Salesforce
okay so Salesforce is growing
organically I think like 15 16 something
like I'm making that up but it's taking
this IDs they just raised prices seven
percent yesterday
so you know what their NR is going to be
great
so this faction is down yeah and ours is
going to be great it's I'm not saying
satisfaction is going to be down but
they can hide for a year if they want I
mean Mark's pretty good but they can
hide for a year in that price increase
at seven when you're going 15 if seven
percent gets you to 22 growth right I
mean it's I'm simplifying a complex math
like you've hit the plan for the year
with one quick uh reconfiguration thing
to your uh but if cut but going to Ron's
point if you if the customers are
getting less happy behind the scenes
like you're sacrificing here right
you're sacrificing here even if the team
may hit their numbers
yeah I I totally agree I think that uh
getting more dollars from each user
doesn't mean that they're more happy
with your product and I think that's
that's part of the thing that um I
actually have a question Jason
um because uh you know we had a lot of
conversation with investors throughout
the years about both net retention and
close attention so first of all I would
love to know like what do you think
about both like when you see a company
do you look more on the ndr or growth
extension like what
um what are the Red Flags uh that you
kind of look for and which one matters
more and what difference between uh ndr
from uh Enterprise Focus company to SMB
Focus company and also Jason maybe just
in a sentence uh explain the difference
between ndr and gross retention yeah
it's a great question and gross
retention is what percent of your
revenue or logos are you retaining
without upsells stripping out upsells
just what what percent of your existing
base your existing logos are you
retaining period
um and you know when we start when we
all started in SAS it took us a while to
even understand that nrr was this
profound metric right
um and it's so profound Monday selling
to smbs having triple digit nrr is so
profound it's so profound on a
spreadsheet right and so it took us all
the way Jason uh I don't want to
interrupt but it's a great point because
it's one of the only SAS metrics that
all SAS companies report not AR nutcac
every but almost all SAS companies are
reporting uh nrr yeah yes so when SAS
started to take off we that we realized
that was our Holy Grail in fact the
first faster post ever was it was called
it compounds basically and it was all
because it was magical the folks in 2012
how this worked right and it went like
viral and Aaron Levy reposted and David
sacks and everyone because it was like
an epiphany that now now I mean this is
as fundamentally basic as it gets and
then I remember maybe in 2019 I was
talking I was doing an interview with
Kyle Porter who CEO of sales off which
got bought for two and a half billion
and they had crossed nine figures of
Revenue and they were sort of early
getting ready to go public right at 100
million plus hired the CFO and he's like
the biggest change is everything's about
grr not nrr now now we haven't seen that
show up in the public companies right
but his point it was it was an epiphany
for me and I'm like you're right at the
end of the day
the metric everyone's going to talk
about is nrr going to Iran's point every
public company reports it but grr is
more important
gr is more important if Monday is able
to re I don't know what Monday's logo
retention is there's definitely to
calculate but if you sell the smbs and
you have 90 plus logo retention
you're off the charts good right you're
off off the charts good and it it is
harder to hide games here it is harder
to hide issues and it is harder to hide
price increases and rip-off Deals and
things when you when you aim for top
decile logo retention in grr unless you
sign a three-year contract yeah yeah we
we can have to we have to talk about
that like yeah so I I would
try and say that like gross retention
has to be stable that's important it's a
good Insight it's got to be stable at
least stable right but the number of it
uh varies because if you're like I'll
give you some examples to choose like
one one thing Iran said if you have like
three year contracts so like we saw some
companies with like 97 gross retention
yes they raised money as like crazy
valuation and then they crushed because
they yes you know it was uh they didn't
see the turn yes
um one way to hide it like for sure and
almost you know Monday will be great one
almost if we add more time one of the
most important things I can say for all
of these metrics is you have to segment
them this is what too many Founders
don't do you don't segment them like
unless all your customers are truly
homogeneous the same always segment
small medium and large or at least small
and bigger always segment because
there's always at least two to three
Trends in your base right and for grr
you might see you know 75 85.95 like for
example that's what you could see
servicenow approaches 100 right
five-year contracts can never leave
right their gr approaches 100 75 might
be pretty darn good for small businesses
in fact it might even be unachievable
for one-person shops right
um but you got to segment it or you will
miss the trends in the base right I
think that's a great point I think
that's um you know SMB has just been the
nature of being smbs are more likely to
turn just because going out of business
uh but they might have great ndr where
Enterprise is you know once you get a
software inside an Enterprise even if
they're not using it uh it's going to
take a while before they leave so
um just by the selling to different
sectors and segmenting your customers
you can do different measurements of
close attention and both ndr and get
different results
yeah I'll give you just one story
there's there's a there's a SAS company
I've worked out invested in that's
coming up on 40 million errors so so
pretty pretty getting mature very SMB um
probably similar to Monday and all the
other investors were complaining that
their their nrr was only 90 like you
know you guys if you don't get to a
hundred you're just not going to make it
right and um and I'm like okay that's
right that's true and like I kept
telling them these guys are so smart but
I could tell them segmented segment it
segment it segment it and they have a
lot of single-seat customers one user
right and when they finally segmented it
and you take out the single user it was
north of 100 from from 3K ACV like you
guys are like 2K like it's almost
impossible to have a hundred percent and
they did it they went from bottom
quartile to top quartile by segmenting
that's exactly what happened to us in
one of the rounds because like yeah we
were at exactly the same thing it was a
90. yeah we didn't know until we figure
out to to segment it and then we saw the
difference
yeah and it's interesting this company
I'm talking about is also one of the
best instrumented and analytics but like
you guys but they just didn't do it
right just like you did you you you you
gotta you gotta and it just I kept right
like month after month I'm like I think
your NRA might be better than you think
I I just it doesn't it doesn't feel
right giving it away position it just it
doesn't I don't not but okay okay and uh
you got a segment and you gotta segment
how you attack Your Mark you know it
helps with marketing it helps with you
got to segment your sales team as early
as you can and your customer success
teams and folks actually I find I'm not
sure why but it's interesting Roy which
I actually find Founders and startup and
SAS companies segment later these days
than they used to they they do it later
they're breaking their sales teams up
into small medium and large they're
breaking their marketing spend up their
CS teams up later 30 40 50 million and
we used to do in the old days we would
do this at a couple millionaire Revenue
like we have no choice like every lead
was so precious the markets were so
small that you want to do you
immediately realize specialization would
help let's put let's put Iran on the
five deals and Roy on the 3K deals and
Daria on the 10K deals and we all but
but now I actually see it happening
later and later
um but I actually think it always works
it always works in the metrics and with
teams that all you always get a boost
when you segment your teams and your
data right you always I I think uh
another Insight that I can share is that
you know companies are always looking to
increase their MDR
um and often the way you think about it
is oh we need to improve the product
that's always kind of how you think
about we need to improve the product and
that's obvious like you need to improve
the product but I think another thing
you should do is to create upsell
opportunities because if you don't have
absolute opportunities uh you won't be
able to increase the the contract price
so for example Monday we have you know
is seed based so the more people the
company hires the more seats we have the
more we expand but we have an option to
add more layers more add-ons more
features that we can upsell to customers
so I think that's another way to think
about how can we add more value to
customers out soon we offer more upsell
opportunities and that's a great way to
think about how can we increase our ndr
going forward it is just two thoughts in
that one going to Iran's point of why
every public company reports nrr for
Founders as you scale this is as you
approach later stage this is the most
important metric to investors whether it
should be we could debate it a little
bit right obviously mathematically it is
but you will get incessant questions as
you approach 30 40 50 million and Beyond
it will come it'll be the number one
question both private and public
customers will ask because you're
they've become obsessed with the annuity
factor of SAS so
um I understand it segmented obsess
about it and then the related point is
if you there may be an exception or two
out there but for my knowledge for folks
that sell two smbs I do not believe
anyone got past 100 that is single
product
right and hubspot's the biggest example
HubSpot was stuck at 85 percent through
40 or 50 million and they really never
got past 100 until they added CRM and
service to the piece they never they
just had to be multi-protical into Ron's
point and we could talk about why but
it's a fact of life right it's a and I
don't think Shopify got there without
payments we could debate whether that's
multi-product but it probably is but no
one get so you've got to figure out that
strategy if for no other Tam is a big
reason but if you'll never get that
stickiness without the second third
fourth fifth product to add right
yeah I'm sure we had a problem with that
yeah explaining it to investors
because we grew too fast
like and when you have new cohorts okay
that they're not uh yet mature it's very
it obscures everything when you're like
uh cohorts from the New Year kind of
obscure the all the rest and everything
kind of like looks weird like you said
and we had to work so hard to show that
even on the graph like when we did the
graph it looked weird because like all
the small cohort looked flat like
physically when you looked at the graph
they looked flat only when you removed
the new cords which were bigger you you
saw the same image of exponential growth
so it looks like hey all these chords
are flat why are they flat they're not
flat you just can't see it because the
new ones like are three times bigger so
we did an animation in the IPO we
created an animation that we added the
layers and everyone's sides the same
thing because everyone no one understood
its exponential when it looked appears
like flatish because you're growing so
fast and other companies when you're not
growing as fast when you're adding the
same number of customers over the years
you know then you have like a it looks
very healthy like a layer cake and that
you can compare one to the other yeah
and Jason just want to add uh I think
something you said is really profound
and I want to share my perspective as a
Founder uh when you start the journey
you mentioned that ndr is one of the
most important metrics as you grow as a
SAS company for investors and now I have
a deeper understanding of of why because
I think when you start the journey
especially in the few First Years
um you know you just focused on
acquiring new customers and growing
business but eventually as you mature as
a SAS company dementia majority of your
Revenue majority of subscription is
actually coming from existing customers
even to a point where it's 95 98 of the
revenue is from existing customers some
of them might be more than a year some
that might be five-year-old uh so when
you reach that point uh and they are
basically represents your growth rate if
you got 130 ndr and 95 percent of your
revenue is coming from existing
customers your revenue is going to be
about 30 just the law of nature your new
customer is going to add to that but
eventually you the company will converge
into its ndr in terms of growth rate and
yes to add other engines into the mix
yeah I remember when I joined Adobe
um we were trying to merge our
Salesforce instances and I said well
where are the opportunities where are
the the leads contacts and opportunities
they're like well Everyone's an Adobe
customer on planet Earth we don't have
opportunities
we just have upselled they didn't call
them upsell go into your appointment but
they had a different term for like the
size of the potential account and how
much had been accommodated but there
literally was no point need for lead
contactor opportunities because there
was not not a single sizable account
that at some level because it was it was
my opening mind to the at our artists
extreme right it's extreme which is
there's nothing to do but maximize
accounts I'm sure it's true at Microsoft
too right I mean we can or Google I mean
everyone at some level is a customer
right
okay guys we have uh just a few more
minutes left and I want to
um still talk about one more topic which
is one major Gap that I think we haven't
talked about yet which is how to measure
you know cash flow and path to
profitability so Jason I wanted to hear
your take on that yeah maybe how do you
optimize for it I think uh because we
know how to measure free cash flow but
um as a SAS founder uh any tips or
recommendations yeah let me let me you
guys might have even read this post in
the early days maybe it was after you
took off but I try to update this every
year because I'm shocked at how few
Founders do this is my number one tip it
always works it always works you you
have to constantly every month do an L4
M analysis okay you do not need 20
people in finance or operations or
planning to do this any founder can do
is take your financials and all you need
is your top line and your bottom line
how much your Revenue grew and how much
you burned you don't need anything else
average the growth rates of both the
growth rate of your top line and the
growth rate of your burn rate for for
the last four months and just roll it
Forward Roll It Forward 12 18 24 months
that should be your real operating plan
okay no matter what anybody tells you no
matter what it says and if that says
you're going to run out of money in 12
months you're going to run out of money
in 12 months okay it doesn't matter what
your Ops person says or your VC or
Finance person the the accuracy of an L4
M model is so high right it is so high
even at the earlier stages it it it does
it become inaccurate five years out
potentially right but if you're growing
six percent the last four months but you
really want to grow 12 and your your
dumb model for the VC says 12 well tough
okay the l4m model says six and if you
every month you say well our burn should
be 200k but hey we have these legal
expenses and hey we did this deal we did
so yeah it was 400 500 400 but it's
going to be 200 eventually The L4 model
um doesn't care it doesn't care about
what your excuses are it doesn't care
why you missed the month it doesn't care
if the deal slipped a quarter it doesn't
it just doesn't care and
um it when I when I invest when I work
with Founders when I do anything no
matter what they say I just take their
financials and roll it into an L4 model
it's always correct it's always more
correct than what they say and um what I
love to keep you to keep you rigorous is
every month on the first of the month
because it should take you like 15
minutes if you understand what I'm doing
redo it and either share it to the whole
company or share it to the senior team
this is what the the numbers say okay I
know we want to grow 100 this year but
since last month it was only three
percent this is how it ripples to our
l4m model right this is how the burn
rate you don't even need to know
anything you don't need to know head
count Schmid count CAC smack CLTV this
l4m model is your best tool as a Founder
it's never wrong and and you may not
like what it says I find many Founders
the first time they do it they get a
little prickly they're like no no no no
we're going to Triple this year Iran no
no no no Roy we're not going to burn
that much but as this The L4 model
automatically updates it right it's just
average your last four months of your
Top Line growth and your burn rate and
Roll It Forward it is better than the
most expensive CFA CPA CFO multi-million
dollar team it's better than all of them
I bet it even works Monday today if I if
I took up your financials I think I only
get quarterly but if I had the monthlies
and I just rolled them forward
um they'd be pretty darn accurate I
think it would work better today than it
did yeah maybe right I can tell you from
experience is it absolutely works at a
million in error like it works at half a
million in error it always works right
and and this four months is just perfect
because it gives you that extra month to
take out the variability right it gives
you that X the perfect it turns out it's
the perfect amount right even if you're
public it probably gives you it
straddles a quarter right it probably
gives you that extra little uh it takes
a game out of the system but yeah I it's
interesting to work better but trust me
it just do it do it now and if and if
you don't like the conclusions
this is then make the changes you're
gonna run out of money you talked about
cash flow forget about all the other
metrics they don't matter what matters
is how much cash have you been burning
the last four months and if you don't
make any changes if it's growing if that
and if that burn rate's growing three
percent a month it's going to keep
growing this is the mistake so many
Founders make especially if they
de-bootstrap this is the number one if
another advice I can give to folks the D
bootstrap a lot of folks that listen to
this may D bootstrap right it's this is
not it's not being venture-backed or not
being venture-backed a lot of folks will
either be forced to Ventures it's hard
to get Venture Capital you guys I mean
you guys had to raise it three and a
half pre like it's hard and so many
folks will wait until 1 million two
million 10 million 20 million in air are
right but the mistake I see again and
again is if you folks if they de-boot
strap
post Revenue but pre-scale is their
intuition's wrong and they burn up all
the money like okay they don't get the
fancy office they they let they let Roy
and Iran have two more hires instead of
one each month but it's kind of the same
the sales comp plan doesn't go crazy
they're like my gut is that's fine and
then 12 months later or half the money's
gone
but if they did this l4m model it
wouldn't happen they would see this
creeping up on them in real time so I I
have like a motivational tip that we did
and a lot of people loved it and we kind
of when we were in in one room office
back in the day I kind of rode on an A4
paper and stuck it on the door like do
you want to live forever
how much customers do we need to get so
we can
live forever and not burn money on the
corn burn rate we had so it's like the
same thing you said like I completely
agree just with the motivational
approach to like where where we do need
to reach to to meet the goals we set
yeah and Daria just to finish up the
point the the advice on the burn rate go
into this the flip side of the l4m model
is the biggest danger I see with
Founders is they get a crap model from
their Finance team
I see this all the time it's worst of
all the worst of all mistake is a lot of
Founders these days wait to hire a VP of
Finance or Director of Finance let alone
a CFO instead they hire a director of
operations some smart kid from McKinsey
or something like that that's whip smart
and they're like I don't want I don't
want a bean counter I don't want to
count I want this guy that spreadsheet
jockey right they can do it perfectly
the problem with the spreadsheet jockey
is if if if if he doesn't like the the
they they manipulate the inputs like if
monday.com goes and gives McKinsey 10
million dollars to plan the future of
their company and then uh Roy and Iran
don't like it McKenzie goes back and
just changes the variables
they just change the variables and so
these these director of Ops I see it
again and again and if you peer behind
you know what the model always looks
like and q1 will do 2 million Q2 will do
2 million Q3 will do 4 million Q4 will
do 18 million like it's they just
they're just manipulating the model and
not only do they blow the top line but
they blow the cash they blow the cash
and if you and I see too many Founders
who just trust their director of Ops the
the McKinsey kid and they blow all the
money you've got to do it yourself like
the models are terrible that they're
terrible and they they put in
assumptions that make sense for wildly
profitable companies that have a margin
for error that startups don't have
they're just they're all terrible I can
tell you all the models very few people
can update a dynamic model every month
and predict your cash flow you got to do
it right so you made it unlocked it's
like uh yeah yeah it sounds so familiar
be careful those guys can help you model
your business new product expansion new
NR they're really good these McKinsey
folks but they're awful at projecting
your cash flow you know what they say uh
you know an Excel sheet can absorb
anything uh that's uh always true
whatever you want in Excel yeah tip for
life I know we have Jen so maybe just
each one of you if you have
um you know any one takeaway that you
wanna you know you want Founders to take
from this conversation uh one good tip
Jason maybe we'll we'll start with you
um
I think my my biggest tip is
um it is go long
Roy touched on this a little bit go and
decide how long you want to go
um if you have a good look look we're
looking at two great co-founders here
okay two co-founders is pretty special
it's what I look for too if you have two
co-founders if you have if you're a Roy
in Iran or better
then be honest and decide how long you
want to commit for if you're willing to
commit for a decade in the beginning and
20 years as you go in then you'll get
through all this stuff right and you'll
make the right decisions and you'll
recruit the right people if you're
willing to commit for one year or two
years which is pretty common you're
gonna have a very different outcome and
different path and I don't mean to be
critical of it because 99.9 of people
should not commit for 20 years right it
is no matter what you see on the
internet but but be honest be self-aware
of that to Founders and that's the if
you have 120 nrr and you have great
Founders you can go as long as you want
in this world no one can stop you if you
have high nrr great Founders that's my
lesson it's up to you now maybe hard and
I'll give you a last tip I have the uh
the last investment of a batch I made in
2015 has been around for 20 years now I
didn't invest 20 years ago okay
investigated de-bootstrapped and
um
they are now selling for many hundreds
of millions of dollars not billions but
many hundreds of millions they just too
grateful they just never quit they never
quit and there's so many stories like
this of Founders that that want to do it
and they had higher nrr and they had
times they went through where they were
terrible at new acquisition but that 120
NR just Powers them through so if you
can get to that higher and happy
customers my advice is it's up to you as
Founders it's up to you if you want to
push through the pain if you want to
push through the A4 note on the fridge
that Roy left up if you want to do it
because no one can stop you with great
Founders and higher no one can stop you
and
um you get to 20 30 40 million air are
in SAS and if you're efficient if you're
burning nothing you'll get good M A
offers
every every SAS company I know of that
gets to 30 40 million that is profitable
or cash flow neutral someone wants to
buy it because they're going to miss the
quarter
someone out there that it may not be
Monday but some public company or
company about to go public want would
love an extra 30 40 million of ARR to
bolt onto their company it's happening
left and right today is the people are
thinking about ipoing again so a rambly
answer of high nrr great co-founders
it's up to you you cannot be stopped if
you don't want to be stopped
um
yeah my tip uh first of all I agree with
Jason you know SAS compounds and it
takes time but once it happens it's just
magic uh so I totally agree with Jason
my tip will be
um everything that you want to measure
and eventually become good at start
measuring it today and start improving
it today uh you want to be to have great
cash flow start measuring that start
improving that you want to improve your
MDR it's not magic put somebody there to
analyze churn put somebody to see what
make companies leave uh create new
upsell opportunities you know it sounds
obvious but it's not sometimes you feel
like this is your company Destiny and
you're stuck with it but it's not if you
start measuring and work towards
improving it it's just gonna happen
yeah and I'm going to add to what Iran
said and say that like uh the journey
has never been easy for us it looks uh
maybe it were successful but it was
always tough and like we didn't really
have a good nrr in the beginning because
it was like very small uh customers and
we kept improving the product all the
time but we looked to Iran's point we
looked at the metric and we saw where
the problems were and we added the sales
team we didn't have that in the
beginning we improved the product we
went after uh larger customer so we did
everything once we saw where the
problems were and you know we were like
adamant about improving things all the
time so like it's not about like nailing
it from day one it's about persisting
uh with the measurement and then it
becomes successful and it's it's like
never easy it's like never easy
yeah I think I think I think end with
that so Jason thank you so much again
for being here with us true pleasure yes
thanks for having me you guys it was
great thank you so much
thank you for listening